h1. xela_taxel_viz_2f Design

h2. Goals

* Visualize @/x_taxel_2f@ (@xela_taxel_msgs/XTaxelSensorTArray@) in RViz2 as two 4x6 grids.
* Use a fixed background grid; encode force magnitude with circle size and color.
* Encode force direction with arrows whose length scales with the same magnitude.
* Apply right-module 180-degree rotation mapping (row + column flip) in grid mode (configurable).

h2. Scope

* 2D grid visualization and optional URDF-based visualization using taxel frame IDs.
* Optional grid overlay in URDF mode.
* Designed for ROBOTIQ 2F-140 fingertip taxels.

h2. Inputs

* Topic: @/x_taxel_2f@
* Message: @xela_taxel_msgs/XTaxelSensorTArray@
** @x_modules[i].forces[j]@ provides force vector (x, y, z).
** @x_modules[i].frame_ids@ can be used for debug labels.
* In URDF mode, @frame_ids@ drive per-taxel marker frames.
** If a frame_id ends with @_joint@, it is converted to the corresponding @_link@.

h2. Outputs

* Topic: @/x_taxel_2f/markers@
* Message: @visualization_msgs/MarkerArray@

h2. Visualization Style

* Grid cell background: fixed color (no per-cell color).
* Optional faint grid lines between cells.
* Per-taxel circle: size and color reflect force magnitude.
* Per-taxel arrow: direction reflects force vector; length matches magnitude scale.
* URDF mode places circles/arrows at the taxel frame origin.

h2. Grid Layout

* Rows: 4, Cols: 6
* Indexing (left module): row-major, left-to-right, top-to-bottom
** Row 1: 1..6
** Row 2: 7..12
** Row 3: 13..18
** Row 4: 19..24

h3. Left/Right Module Mapping

* Grid mode:
** Left module uses base grid mapping.
** Right module uses 180-degree rotation (row + column flip):
** @rowR = (rows - 1) - rowL@
** @colR = (cols - 1) - colL@
* Example mapping:
** L1 -> R24, L2 -> R23, ... L6 -> R19
** L7 -> R18, L8 -> R17, ... L12 -> R13
** L13 -> R12, L14 -> R11, ... L18 -> R7
** L19 -> R6, L20 -> R5, ... L24 -> R1
* URDF mode:
** No index remapping; @x_modules[].frame_ids[]@ order is used as-is.

h2. Force Mapping

* Magnitude: @|F| = sqrt(Fx^2 + Fy^2 + Fz^2)@ (default)
* Axis-normalized magnitude (recommended for sensitivity ranges):
** @nx = Fx / xy_force_range@, @ny = Fy / xy_force_range@
** @nz = max(Fz, 0) / z_force_range@
** @normalized = clamp(sqrt(nx^2 + ny^2 + nz^2), 0..1)@
* Direction:
** Arrow direction uses @(Fx, Fy)@ projected onto the grid plane.
** If @(Fx, Fy)@ is near zero, arrow length becomes zero (or skip arrow).
* Scale reference: 0.1 gf = @0.000980665 N@

h2. Baseline (Zero-Point) Handling

* After node start, collect 1-2 seconds of samples per taxel.
* Compute baseline for both @forces@ and @taxels@.
* Visualization uses @current - baseline@ for forces.
* While baseline is collecting, render zero magnitude.

h2. Node Architecture

* Node name: @xela_taxel_viz_2f@
* Subscribes to @/x_taxel_2f@
* Publishes @/x_taxel_2f/markers@
* Marker types:
** Grid tiles: @CUBE@
** Circles: @CYLINDER@ or @SPHERE@
** Arrows: @ARROW@
** Optional grid overlay in URDF mode

h3. Marker ID Scheme

Use stable IDs to avoid flicker:
* @module_offset = module_index * 1000@
* @grid_id = module_offset + 0 + idx@
* @circle_id = module_offset + 100 + idx@
* @arrow_id = module_offset + 200 + idx@

h3. Update Strategy

* Grid tiles are static; publish once at startup and republish if parameters change.
* Circles and arrows update on each incoming message.

h2. Parameters (draft defaults)

* @frame_id@: @x_taxel_viz@
* @viz_mode@: @grid@ | @urdf@
* @overlay_grid_in_urdf@: @false@
* @grid_rows@: @4@
* @grid_cols@: @6@
* @cell_size@: @0.015@
* @module_gap@: @0.04@
* @left_module_index@: @0@
* @right_module_index@: @1@
* @row_flip_right@: @true@
* @col_flip_right@: @true@
* @baseline_duration_sec@: @2.0@
* @use_axis_normalization@: @true@
* @xy_force_range@: @0.8@
* @z_force_range@: @14.0@
* @max_force@: @0.02@ (clamp)
* @use_cell_scale@: @true@
* @circle_area_scale@: @2.0@ (max circle area = cell area * scale)
* @arrow_length_scale@: @2.0@ (max arrow length = cell_size * scale)
* @use_fz_only@: @false@ (if true, use |Fz| for magnitude)
* @use_xy_direction@: @true@
* @grid_color@: @#e8e3dc@
* @grid_lines_enabled@: @true@
* @grid_line_width@: @0.001@
* @grid_line_alpha@: @0.2@
* @grid_line_color@: @[0.2, 0.2, 0.2]@
* @circle_colormap@: @blue_to_red@
* @left_force_x_sign@: @1.0@
* @left_force_y_sign@: @-1.0@
* @right_force_x_sign@: @-1.0@
* @right_force_y_sign@: @1.0@
* @urdf_left_force_x_sign@: @-1.0@
* @urdf_left_force_y_sign@: @1.0@
* @urdf_right_force_x_sign@: @-1.0@
* @urdf_right_force_y_sign@: @1.0@

h2. URDF Mode Requirements

* Launch @robot_state_publisher@ with @description/xela_uSPr2F_2_modules.xacro@.
* Launch @xela_taxel_joint_state_publisher@ to publish @/joint_states@ for taxel joints.
* @x_modules[].frame_ids[]@ must match URDF joint/link names.
* Direction signs are controlled by @urdf_left_force_*@ and @urdf_right_force_*@.

h2. Data Handling Rules

* If @forces.size()@ < @grid_rows * grid_cols@, fill remaining with zeros.
* If @forces.size()@ > @grid_rows * grid_cols@, ignore extras.
* If @right_module_index@ is out of range, only left module is shown.

h2. RViz2 Setup

* Add @MarkerArray@ display for @/x_taxel_2f/markers@.
* Set Fixed Frame to @frame_id@.

h2. Validation Plan

* Unit test: mapping index -> (row, col) for left/right.
* Playback test: feed known forces and verify circle size/color and arrow direction.
* Visual check: confirm 180-degree mapping (L1 aligns with R24).
