h1. Functional Specification Document (FSD) - xela_taxel_viz_2f

h2. 1. Overview

@xela_taxel_viz_2f@ visualizes tactile data from @/x_taxel_2f@
(@xela_taxel_msgs/XTaxelSensorTArray@) in RViz2.
It supports two modes:
* *Grid mode*: two 4x6 grids (left/right modules).
* *URDF mode*: markers attached to taxel frames from URDF.

h2. 2. Goals

* Provide intuitive visualization of tactile force magnitude and direction.
* Support baseline/zeroing to stabilize readings.
* Offer runtime configuration via ROS parameters and launch arguments.

h2. 3. Inputs

* Topic: @/x_taxel_2f@
** Message: @xela_taxel_msgs/XTaxelSensorTArray@
** Fields used:
*** @x_modules[].forces[]@ (x, y, z)
*** @x_modules[].taxels[]@ (baseline only)
*** @x_modules[].frame_ids[]@ (URDF mode)

h2. 4. Outputs

* Topic: @/x_taxel_2f/markers@
** Message: @visualization_msgs/MarkerArray@
** Marker types: grid tiles, circles, arrows.

h2. 5. Functional Requirements

h3. FR-1: Visualization modes

* The node shall support @viz_mode=grid@ and @viz_mode=urdf@.
* Grid mode shall render two 4x6 grids side-by-side.
* URDF mode shall attach markers to per-taxel frames.

h3. FR-2: Force magnitude mapping

* The node shall map force magnitude to circle size and color.
* The node shall map force direction to arrow orientation and length.
* Z-axis negative values shall be clamped to 0 for normalization.

h3. FR-3: Baseline handling

* The node shall compute a per-taxel baseline for a configurable duration after start.
* During baseline collection, the output magnitude shall be zero.
* Baseline shall be applied to @forces@ and @taxels@.

h3. FR-4: Grid mapping

* Grid indexing shall be row-major (left→right, top→bottom).
* Right module grid mapping shall be configurable via row/column flips.

h3. FR-5: URDF mapping

* URDF mode shall use @frame_ids[]@ order as-is (no index remap).
* If a @frame_id@ ends with @_joint@, the node shall use the corresponding @_link@.
* Direction signs shall be configurable per module in URDF mode.

h3. FR-6: Launch behavior

* URDF mode shall launch @robot_state_publisher@, @ros2_control_node@,
  and @xela_taxel_joint_state_publisher@ via spawner.
* Grid overlay in URDF mode shall be optional.

h2. 6. Non-Functional Requirements

* Must be configurable via YAML and launch arguments.
* Must run with ROS 2 Humble.
* Marker updates shall be stable (consistent IDs to avoid flicker).

h2. 7. Configuration

Key parameters (see @config/xela_taxel_viz_2f.yaml@):
* Topics: @in_topic@, @out_topic@, @frame_id@
* Modes: @viz_mode@, @overlay_grid_in_urdf@
* Grid layout: @grid_rows@, @grid_cols@, @cell_size@, @module_gap@
* Grid flips: @row_flip_right@, @col_flip_right@
* Baseline: @baseline_duration_sec@
* Normalization: @use_axis_normalization@, @xy_force_range@, @z_force_range@
* Style: @circle_*@, @arrow_*@, @grid_*@, @color_*@
* Direction signs (grid): @left_force_*@, @right_force_*@
* Direction signs (URDF): @urdf_left_force_*@, @urdf_right_force_*@

h2. 8. Dependencies

* @xela_taxel_msgs@
* @visualization_msgs@
* @robot_state_publisher@
* @controller_manager@ (ros2_control)
* @xela_taxel_joint_state_publisher@

h2. 9. Constraints & Assumptions

* Two modules are expected (left/right).
* Grid size is assumed to be 4x6 (24 taxels) unless configured otherwise.
* URDF frame IDs must match @x_modules[].frame_ids[]@.

h2. 10. Acceptance Criteria

* Grid mode:
** Two 4x6 grids rendered with correct left/right mapping.
** Circle size/color and arrow direction follow force data.
* URDF mode:
** URDF loads and taxel frames are visible in RViz2.
** Markers attach to correct taxel frames.
** Direction sign corrections per module behave as configured.
* Baseline:
** Initial 1–2 seconds show near-zero output.
** After baseline, changes respond to touch.

h2. 11. Test/Validation Outline

* Replay recorded @/x_taxel_2f@ and verify marker positions and directions.
* Confirm baseline behavior by observing first 1–2 seconds after start.
* Verify URDF mode launches all required nodes and TFs resolve.
