h1. xela_taxel_viz_2f

RViz2 visualization for @/x_taxel_2f@ (@xela_taxel_msgs/XTaxelSensorTArray@).
Supports a 2x module 4x6 grid mode and a URDF mode that uses taxel frames.

h2. Build

<pre><code>
cd ~/xela_robotics/02_dev_ws
colcon build --packages-select xela_taxel_viz_2f
</code></pre>

If you modify @xela_models@ xacros, rebuild that package too:

<pre><code>
colcon build --packages-select xela_models
</code></pre>

h2. Run (Grid mode)

<pre><code>
source ~/xela_robotics/02_dev_ws/install/setup.bash
ros2 launch xela_taxel_viz_2f xela_taxel_viz_2f.launch.py viz_mode:=grid
</code></pre>

h2. Run (URDF mode)

<pre><code>
source ~/xela_robotics/02_dev_ws/install/setup.bash
ros2 launch xela_taxel_viz_2f xela_taxel_viz_2f.launch.py viz_mode:=urdf model_name:=uSPr2F
</code></pre>

URDF mode also launches:
* @robot_state_publisher@
* @ros2_control_node@
* @xela_taxel_joint_state_publisher@ (via spawner)

h2. Launch arguments

* @viz_mode@: @grid@ or @urdf@
* @model_name@: model name used for @description/xela_<model>_2_modules.xacro@ and device profile selection
* URDF mode uses @config/models/<model>/ros2_controllers.yaml@ for ros2_control.
* @overlay_grid_in_urdf@: show grid overlay in URDF mode (default: @false@)
* @style_preset@: grid style preset (@default@, @cool_steel@, @deep_navy@, @warm_graphite@)
* @params_file@: override params file
* @urdf_xacro_path@: override xacro path for URDF mode

Example:

<pre><code>
ros2 launch xela_taxel_viz_2f xela_taxel_viz_2f.launch.py viz_mode:=urdf model_name:=uSPr2F overlay_grid_in_urdf:=true
</code></pre>

h2. Grid style preset

<pre><code>
ros2 launch xela_taxel_viz_2f xela_taxel_viz_2f.launch.py viz_mode:=grid model_name:=uSPrDS style_preset:=cool_steel
</code></pre>

h2. Parameters

See @config/base.yaml@ and @config/models/<model>/<mode>.yaml@ for defaults. Key groups:

* Topics: @in_topic@, @out_topic@, @frame_id@
* Grid layout: @grid_rows@, @grid_cols@, @cell_size@, @module_gap@, @row_flip_right@, @col_flip_right@
* Grid map overrides: @grid_index_map_left@, @grid_index_map_right@, @grid_separator_cols_left@, @grid_separator_cols_right@
* Baseline and scaling: @baseline_duration_sec@, @baseline_deadband_xy@, @baseline_deadband_z@, @baseline_deadband_taxel_xy@, @baseline_deadband_taxel_z@, @use_axis_normalization@, @xy_force_range@, @z_force_range@
* Marker style: @circle_*@, @arrow_*@, @grid_*@, @color_*@
* Marker timestamps: @marker_stamp_mode@ (@keep@, @now@, @zero@)
* Marker visibility floor: @min_marker_scale@ (avoids RViz scale=0 warnings)
* Marker timestamp offset: @marker_time_offset_sec@ (negative values reduce TF extrapolation warnings)
* Direction signs (grid): @left_force_*@, @right_force_*@
* Direction signs (URDF): @urdf_left_force_*@, @urdf_right_force_*@
* Model overrides: @config/models/<model>/grid.yaml@ and @config/models/<model>/urdf.yaml@
* Legacy config (archived): @config/legacy/xela_taxel_viz_2f.yaml@

h2. RViz2

<pre><code>
rviz2 -d ~/xela_robotics/02_dev_ws/src/xela_apps/xela_taxel_viz_2f/config/xeal_taxel_viz_2f.rviz
</code></pre>

h2. Troubleshooting: URDF mode uses wrong joint profile

If @/joint_states@ shows the wrong model (e.g., @uSPa46@ when launching @model_name:=uSPrHE35@):
# Confirm controller params:

<pre><code>
ros2 param get /controller_manager xela_taxel_joint_state_publisher.ros__parameters.device_profile
ros2 param get /controller_manager xela_taxel_joint_state_publisher.ros__parameters.config_yaml
</code></pre>

# Confirm the controller log shows the loaded profile and file:

<pre><code>
Profile '<model>' loaded keep_joints file '<...>/<model>_joint.yaml'
</code></pre>

h2. Data source behavior

* @xela_server2_2f@: when @calibrated@ is missing, @forces@ is left empty and only @taxels@ are populated.
* @xela_taxel_viz_2f@: when @forces@ is empty, it falls back to @taxels@ for visualization.
* Axis ranges follow the project FSD/Design documents.
