h1. Design - xela_taxel_sidecar_ah

h2. 1. Overview and design objective

The AH sidecar design addresses higher taxel density and model-side mapping complexity compared to 2F.

Design intent:

* keep a stable sidecar service/topic contract while adding AH mapping/pattern semantics
* decouple bridge mode switching from optional viz-node mode service availability
* preserve compatibility with @std_xela_taxel_viz_ahv4@ namespace-local TF conventions

This enables incremental AH web visualization improvements without forcing changes in tactile producer or std-viz packages.

h2. 2. Bridge design

h3. 2.1 Mapping model

* mapping file provides flat index and frame-name contract
* pattern file provides 2D grid projection
* hand-side auto resolution switches prefix conversion and default pattern

h3. 2.2 Signal model

* force-first rendering with taxel fallback
* baseline/deadband for force and taxel paths
* optional group/module filtering (@show_thumb@, @show_module_XX@)

h3. 2.3 URDF point model

* enabled by @emit_urdf_points@
* TF lookup with cache (@tf_cache_ttl_sec@)
* optional frozen coordinates (@freeze_urdf_positions@)

h2. 3. Mode manager design

* service endpoint: @/xela_viz_mode_manager/set_mode@
* always updates bridge params
* viz service call controlled by:
** @use_viz_set_mode@
** @require_viz_set_mode_service@

This avoids hard failure when target viz node has no @set_mode@.

h2. 4. Launch design

@xela_taxel_sidecar_cpp.launch.py@:

* resolves hand/mapping/pattern at launch time (@OpaqueFunction@)
* configures transport + mode manager options
* supports namespace-local TF remap

@xela_taxel_sidecar.launch.py@: thin wrapper to cpp launch.

h2. 5. Risks

* wrong mapping/pattern combination for selected model
* optional viz service disabled while user expects viz-side mode switch
* TF frame mismatch in URDF mode

h2. 6. Validation

* launch left/right models
* verify output topic and web updates
* verify mode toggling with @use_viz_set_mode@ off/on
* verify URDF points in bridge payload
