h1. xela_taxel_sidecar_ah

Web sidecar package for *Xela Allegro Hand (AH/AHv4)* tactile visualization.

h2. Components

* @xela_taxel_web_bridge_node@ (C++)
* @xela_viz_mode_manager_node@ (C++)
* @scripts/sidecar_http_server.py@
* optional sidecar rosbridge websocket
* static web UI (@web/taxel_sidecar@)

h2. Data flow

# subscribe @/x_taxel_ah@
# bridge maps taxels by @mapping_yaml + pattern_yaml@
# publish @/x_taxel_ah/web_state@ JSON
# web UI subscribes through sidecar rosbridge
# mode service @/xela_viz_mode_manager/set_mode@ updates bridge mode

h2. Recommended launch

<pre><code>
ros2 launch xela_taxel_sidecar_ah xela_taxel_sidecar_cpp.launch.py
</code></pre>

Open: @http://localhost:8765@

h2. Main launch defaults

* @in_topic@: @/x_taxel_ah@
* @out_topic@: @/x_taxel_ah/web_state@
* @viz_mode@: @grid@
* @model_name@: @XR23AHLCPP@
* @hand_side@: @auto@
* @mapping_yaml@: auto from @std_xela_taxel_viz_ahv4@
* @pattern_yaml@: auto from @std_xela_taxel_viz_ahv4@ (left/right by model)
* @style_preset@: @cool_steel@
* @fixed_frame@: @world@
* @cell_size@: @0.01@
* @origin_x@: @0.0@
* @origin_y@: @0.0@
* @max_publish_rate_hz@: @20.0@
* @emit_urdf_points@: @false@
* @freeze_urdf_positions@: @true@
* @enable_viz_mode_manager@: @true@
* @bridge_node_name@: @/xela_taxel_web_bridge_cpp@
* @viz_node_name@: @/xvizah/std_xela_taxel_viz_ahv4@
* @use_viz_set_mode@: @false@
* @require_viz_set_mode_service@: @false@
* @bridge_tf_topic@: @/tf@
* @bridge_tf_static_topic@: @/tf_static@
* @enable_web_server@: @true@
* @web_port@: @8765@
* @enable_sidecar_rosbridge@: @true@
* @sidecar_rosbridge_port@: @9090@

h2. Runtime mode switching

<pre><code>
# grid -> urdf
ros2 service call /xela_viz_mode_manager/set_mode std_srvs/srv/SetBool "{data: true}"

# urdf -> grid
ros2 service call /xela_viz_mode_manager/set_mode std_srvs/srv/SetBool "{data: false}"
</code></pre>

Note:

* default is bridge-only mode switching (@use_viz_set_mode=false@)
* enable viz service call only when target viz node supports @set_mode@

h2. Integration examples

Namespace-local TF with std AH viz:
<pre><code>
ros2 launch xela_taxel_sidecar_ah xela_taxel_sidecar_cpp.launch.py   viz_mode:=urdf   model_name:=XR23AHRCPP   bridge_tf_topic:=/xvizah/tf   bridge_tf_static_topic:=/xvizah/tf_static
</code></pre>

With @ur5e_xahr2c_config3@ driver:
<pre><code>
ros2 launch ur5e_xahr2c_config3 xela_driver.launch.py enable_taxel_sidecar:=true
</code></pre>

h2. Build

<pre><code>
cd ~/my_moveit_pro/01_wk_xela_mpro_dev_ws
moveit_pro build user_workspace --colcon-args "--packages-select xela_taxel_sidecar_ah"
</code></pre>

h2. Troubleshooting

* mapping/pattern load error: check resolved YAML paths and hand-side model
* no updates on web: verify @/x_taxel_ah@ and @/x_taxel_ah/web_state@
* mode switch no effect on std viz: @use_viz_set_mode@ is off by default
* URDF points missing: check @fixed_frame@ and TF remap topics

h2. Documentation

* Functional spec: @xela_taxel_sidecar_ah.md@
* Design: @design_xela_taxel_sidecar_ah.md@
* Redmine: @README.textile@, @xela_taxel_sidecar_ah.textile@, @design_xela_taxel_sidecar_ah.textile@
