h1. Functional Specification - xela_taxel_sidecar_ah

h2. 0. Overview

@xela_taxel_sidecar_ah@ is the AH-focused web sidecar stack that converts high-density Allegro tactile payloads into deterministic web-state outputs.

Compared to the 2F variant, this package adds AH-specific contracts:

* mapping-yaml and pattern-yaml based taxel index projection
* hand-side aware model resolution (@left/right/auto@)
* optional TF-based URDF point emission for XelaModel rendering

It is designed to be used standalone or with @std_xela_taxel_viz_ahv4@, while keeping mode-control and transport behavior explicit and reversible at runtime.

h2. 1. Purpose

Provide web-side tactile visualization bridge for Allegro Hand stream with runtime mode switch and AH mapping/pattern support.

h2. 2. Scope

* topic bridge (@/x_taxel_ah@ -> @/x_taxel_ah/web_state@)
* AH mapping/pattern based grid projection
* optional URDF point generation from TF
* sidecar web and optional rosbridge
* mode manager with optional viz service forwarding

h2. 3. Interfaces

h3. 3.1 Input

* @/x_taxel_ah@ (@xela_taxel_msgs/msg/XTaxelSensorTArray@)
* mapping yaml (@taxel_joint_map@ / @server_model_joint_map@)
* pattern yaml (@pattern.rows/cols/index_map@)

h3. 3.2 Output

* @/x_taxel_ah/web_state@ (@std_msgs/msg/String@ JSON)
* service: @/xela_viz_mode_manager/set_mode@ (@std_srvs/srv/SetBool@)

h3. 3.3 Integration services

* bridge param service: @/<bridge_node_name>/set_parameters@
* optional viz service: @/<viz_node_name>/set_mode@

h2. 4. Functional requirements

* FR-01: bridge shall resolve hand side by argument and model name.
* FR-02: bridge shall map AH frame ids to taxel indices using mapping yaml.
* FR-03: bridge shall project mapped indices into grid using pattern yaml.
* FR-04: mode manager shall update bridge mode on SetBool requests.
* FR-05: mode manager shall optionally call viz mode service based on flags.
* FR-06: launch shall support isolated sidecar rosbridge endpoint.

h2. 5. Non-functional requirements

* NFR-01: mode switch without relaunch.
* NFR-02: standalone operation independent of MoveIt Pro runtime.
* NFR-03: compatibility with namespace-local TF used by std AH viz.

h2. 6. Acceptance checks

* AC-01: launch starts bridge/manager/web/rosbridge.
* AC-02: @/x_taxel_ah/web_state@ updates from tactile stream.
* AC-03: mode service updates bridge @viz_mode@ and URDF point flags.
* AC-04: right-hand model selects right pattern/mapping defaults.
