h1. Functional Specification Document (FSD) - xela_taxel_viz_ahv4

h2. 1. Overview

@xela_taxel_viz_ahv4@ visualizes @/x_taxel_ah@ tactile data on a 31x26 grid
with 368 active cells, and supports URDF marker mode for Allegro Hand (left/right),
using the same visual style as @xela_taxel_viz_2f@.

h2. 2. Inputs

* Topic: @/x_taxel_ah@
* Message: @xela_taxel_msgs/XTaxelSensorTArray@
* Fields used:
* @x_modules[].frame_ids[]@ (always @_joint@ suffix)
* @x_modules[].forces[]@ (optional)
* @x_modules[].taxels[]@ (primary)
* @x_modules[].temps[]@ (ignored)

h2. 3. Outputs

* Topic: @/x_taxel_ah/markers@
* Message: @visualization_msgs/MarkerArray@

h2. 4. Functional Requirements

* FR-1: Build a flat array of 368 values per message using @frame_id -> index@ mapping.
* FR-2: Map each index to a cell using a 31x26 pattern YAML (@index_map@).
* FR-3: Display circles and arrows per active cell.
* FR-4: Apply baseline and normalization identical to @xela_taxel_viz_2f@.
* FR-5: If forces are present and @use_forces_if_present=true@, use forces; else use taxels.

h2. 5. Normalization

* X/Y: baseline +/- 1350
* Z: baseline to baseline + 16000 (negative clamped to 0)

h2. 6. Configuration

* @pattern_yaml@: path to pattern YAML
* @mapping_yaml@: path to @taxel_joint_map_new.yaml@
* @frame_id@: grid marker frame (default @x_taxel_ah_viz@)
* @hand_side@: @left|right@ prefix rewrite for mapping (@x_taxel_0_@ vs @x_taxel_1_@)
* @use_forces_if_present@
* @baseline_duration_sec@
* @xy_range@, @z_range@
* Style parameters: circle/arrow/grid/color
* @marker_stamp_mode@: @keep|now|zero@
* @marker_time_offset_sec@: default @-0.1@ for TF stability

h2. 7. Constraints

* Mapping file must cover all 368 indices.
* Pattern YAML must be 31x26 with 368 valid indices.

h2. 8. Acceptance Criteria

* All 368 indices map to the correct cells.
* Markers update in real time without errors.
* Baseline stabilizes within configured duration.
* Normalization matches expected ranges.
* URDF markers align to the hand model for both left and right.

h2. 9. Validation

* Replay recorded @/x_taxel_ah@ samples.
* Verify a set of known indices appear at expected cells.
* Confirm scaling response within specified ranges.
