h1. xela_taxel_viz_ahv4

RViz2 visualization for @/x_taxel_ah@ (@xela_taxel_msgs/XTaxelSensorTArray@).
Supports both grid and URDF marker modes for Allegro Hand (AHv4) left/right.

h2. Build

<pre><code>
cd ~/xela_robotics/02_dev_ws
colcon build --packages-select xela_taxel_viz_ahv4
</code></pre>

h2. Run

Grid mode (default):
<pre><code>
source ~/xela_robotics/02_dev_ws/install/setup.bash
ros2 launch xela_taxel_viz_ahv4 xela_taxel_viz_ahv4.launch.py viz_mode:=grid
</code></pre>

URDF mode:
<pre><code>
source ~/xela_robotics/02_dev_ws/install/setup.bash
ros2 launch xela_taxel_viz_ahv4 xela_taxel_viz_ahv4.launch.py viz_mode:=urdf
</code></pre>

h2. Demo (no /x_taxel_ah source yet)

Starts a synthetic publisher and the visualizer.
<pre><code>
source ~/xela_robotics/02_dev_ws/install/setup.bash
ros2 launch xela_taxel_viz_ahv4 xela_taxel_viz_ahv4_demo.launch.py
</code></pre>

Optional: set demo publish rate
<pre><code>
ros2 launch xela_taxel_viz_ahv4 xela_taxel_viz_ahv4_demo.launch.py publish_rate_hz:=10.0
</code></pre>

h2. Sim (replayer + server + viz)

<pre><code>
source ~/xela_robotics/02_dev_ws/install/setup.bash
ros2 launch xela_taxel_viz_ahv4 sim_all_svc_xela_taxel_viz_ahv4.launch.py \
  model_name:=XR23AHLCPP viz_mode:=urdf
</code></pre>

h2. RViz2

Grid mode fixed frame should be @x_taxel_ah_viz@.
URDF mode uses the URDF frames (e.g., @world@/@hand_root@).

@sim_all_svc_xela_taxel_viz_ahv4.launch.py@ selects RViz configs automatically:
* grid: @config/grid_xela_taxel_viz_ah.rviz@
* urdf: @config/urdf_xela_taxel_viz_ah.rviz@

h2. Pattern Conversion (CSV -> YAML)

<pre><code>
~/xela_robotics/02_dev_ws/install/xela_taxel_viz_ahv4/lib/xela_taxel_viz_ahv4/csv_to_pattern_yaml.py \
  pattern.csv -o pattern.yaml
</code></pre>

h2. Key Parameters

See @config/xela_taxel_viz_ahv4.yaml@ for defaults.
* @mapping_yaml@: @taxel_joint_map_new.yaml@
* @pattern_yaml@: @pattern_lahv4.yaml@
* @use_forces_if_present@: prefer forces when available
* @xy_range@, @z_range@: normalization ranges
* @hand_side@: @left|right@ (prefix rewrite for @x_taxel_0_@ vs @x_taxel_1_@)
* @marker_stamp_mode@: @keep|now|zero@
* @marker_time_offset_sec@: default @-0.1@ for TF stability

h2. Left/Right Notes

* @model_name:=XR23AHLCPP@ (left) and @model_name:=XR23AHRCPP@ (right).
* @pattern_lahv4.yaml@ (left) and @pattern_rahv4.yaml@ (right) are selected
  automatically by @sim_all_svc_xela_taxel_viz_ahv4.launch.py@.
