h1. xela_taxel_sidecar_2f

Web sidecar package for *Xela 2F* tactile visualization.

h2. Components

* @xela_taxel_web_bridge_node@ (C++)
* @xela_viz_mode_manager_node@ (C++)
* @scripts/sidecar_http_server.py@
* optional sidecar rosbridge websocket
* static web UI (@web/taxel_sidecar@)

h2. Data flow

# subscribe @/x_taxel_2f@ (@xela_taxel_msgs/msg/XTaxelSensorTArray@)
# optional subscribe @/x_telemetry_2f/grasp_telemetry@, @/x_telemetry_2f/grasp_event@ (@std_msgs/msg/String@)
# publish @/x_taxel_2f/web_state@ (@std_msgs/msg/String@, JSON)
# web UI reads sidecar rosbridge topic and renders @GridMode@, @XelaModel@, or @RobotModel@
# @/xela_viz_mode_manager/set_mode@ toggles backend @grid/urdf@ behavior

h2. Recommended launch (C++)

<pre><code>
ros2 launch xela_taxel_sidecar_2f xela_taxel_sidecar_cpp.launch.py
</code></pre>

Open: @http://localhost:8765@

If Windows-to-WSL localhost forwarding is unavailable, use the WSL host IP instead (for example @http://<wsl-ip>:8765@).

h2. Main launch defaults

* @in_topic@: @/x_taxel_2f@
* @out_topic@: @/x_taxel_2f/web_state@
* @viz_mode@: @grid@
* @model_name@: @uSPr2F@
* @style_preset@: @cool_steel@
* @frame_id@: @x_taxel_viz@
* @grid_parent_frame@: @world@
* @legacy_out_topic@: @/x_taxel_2f/markers@
* @fixed_frame@: @world@
* @grid_rows@: @4@
* @grid_cols@: @6@
* @cell_size@: @0.015@
* @module_gap@: @0.04@
* @row_flip_right@: @true@
* @col_flip_right@: @true@
* @max_publish_rate_hz@: @20.0@
* @publisher_transient_local@: @false@
* @marker_stamp_mode@: @now@
* @circle_marker_type@: @sphere@
* @emit_urdf_points@: @false@
* @freeze_urdf_positions@: @true@
* @enable_viz_mode_manager@: @true@
* @managed_launch_package@: @ur5e_x2f_140_config2@
* @managed_launch_file@: @xela_viz_safe.launch.py@
* @bridge_node_name@: @/xela_taxel_web_bridge_cpp@
* @viz_node_name@: @/xela_taxel_viz_2f@
* @bridge_tf_topic@: @/tf@
* @bridge_tf_static_topic@: @/tf_static@
* @enable_web_server@: @true@
* @web_host@: @0.0.0.0@
* @web_port@: @8765@
* @enable_sidecar_rosbridge@: @true@
* @sidecar_rosbridge_host@: @0.0.0.0@
* @sidecar_rosbridge_port@: @9090@

h2. Bridge runtime parameters

* @include_grasp_meta@: @true@
* @grasp_telemetry_topic@: @/x_telemetry_2f/grasp_telemetry@
* @grasp_event_topic@: @/x_telemetry_2f/grasp_event@

h2. Web UI runtime notes

* Browser display modes are @GridMode@, @XelaModel@, @RobotModel@.
* ROS-side @viz_mode@ is still only @grid@ or @urdf@.
* Websocket fallback order: @:9090@, @:3201@, @/ros@.
* URL query parameters can override runtime behavior, including @topic@, @ns@, @xela_*@, @robot_model_*@, and @follow_cam_*@.
* FollowCam and Analysis logic can remain implemented even when toolbar buttons are hidden for a test build.

h2. FollowCam and Analysis usage

* @FollowCam@
** available only in @RobotModel@
** toggles automatic front-upper camera tracking for the gripper / fingertip region
** manual mouse orbit pauses follow for @3s@, then auto-follow resumes
** toggling it off returns to normal RobotModel orbit framing
* @Analysis@
** toggles the lower stats/timeline panel
** shows force/phase/event summaries, sparkline history, event markers, and hover tooltip inspection
** timeline controls (@10s@, @30s@, @60s@, @Pause@) affect only the analysis panel

h2. FollowCam URL parameter contract

* There is no separate @follow_cam_profile@ key in the current implementation.
* FollowCam is tuned with these query parameters:
** @follow_cam_forward_distance@: forward camera offset from the resolved tip center
** @follow_cam_height_offset@: world-Z height offset above the target
** @follow_cam_look_ahead@: look target offset back toward the sensor area
** @follow_cam_forward_sign@: flips the resolved forward hemisphere (@1@ or @-1@)
* Current built-in baseline when no query override is provided:
** @follow_cam_forward_distance=-0.2@
** @follow_cam_height_offset=0.1@
** @follow_cam_look_ahead=0.028@
** @follow_cam_forward_sign=-1.0@
* Example explicit URL:
<pre><code>
http://localhost:8765/?follow_cam_forward_distance=-0.2&follow_cam_height_offset=0.1&follow_cam_look_ahead=0.028&follow_cam_forward_sign=-1.0
</code></pre>

h2. Runtime mode switching

<pre><code>
# grid -> urdf
ros2 service call /xela_viz_mode_manager/set_mode std_srvs/srv/SetBool "{data: true}"

# urdf -> grid
ros2 service call /xela_viz_mode_manager/set_mode std_srvs/srv/SetBool "{data: false}"
</code></pre>

h2. std_xela_taxel_viz_2f integration example

<pre><code>
ros2 launch xela_taxel_sidecar_2f xela_taxel_sidecar_cpp.launch.py   viz_mode:=urdf   model_name:=uSPrDS   viz_node_name:=/xviz2f/std_xela_taxel_viz_2f   bridge_tf_topic:=/xviz2f/tf   bridge_tf_static_topic:=/xviz2f/tf_static
</code></pre>

h2. Build

<pre><code>
cd ~/my_moveit_pro/01_wk_xela_mpro_dev_ws
moveit_pro build user_workspace --colcon-args "--packages-select xela_taxel_sidecar_2f"
</code></pre>

h2. Troubleshooting

* web disconnected: check @rosbridge_websocket_sidecar@ and rosbridge port
* on Windows + WSL, if @http://localhost:8765@ fails but @http://<wsl-ip>:8765@ works, the issue is usually WSL localhost forwarding
* no tactile updates: check @/x_taxel_2f@ and @/x_taxel_2f/web_state@
* mode switch no effect: verify service and @viz_node_name@
* duplicate sidecar nodes: do not run Python and C++ launch variants together

h2. Documentation

* Functional spec: @xela_taxel_sidecar_2f.md@
* Design: @design_xela_taxel_sidecar_2f.md@
* Redmine: @README.textile@, @xela_taxel_sidecar_2f.textile@, @design_xela_taxel_sidecar_2f.textile@
