h1. Functional Specification - xela_taxel_sidecar_2f

h2. 0. Overview

@xela_taxel_sidecar_2f@ is a transport-and-render adapter layer between ROS tactile messages and browser-side visualization.

It intentionally separates concerns:

* ROS bridge node converts @/x_taxel_2f@ into compact web JSON state
* mode manager provides runtime @grid/urdf@ switching without relaunch
* sidecar HTTP + optional rosbridge provide isolated web delivery path

The package is designed to attach to either legacy viz targets or namespaced @std_xela_taxel_viz_2f@ targets without changing upstream sensor publishers.

h2. 1. Purpose

Provide a standalone web-side visualization bridge for Xela 2F tactile stream with runtime mode switching.

h2. 2. Scope

* topic bridge (@/x_taxel_2f@ -> @/x_taxel_2f/web_state@)
* optional grasp telemetry metadata bridge (@/x_telemetry_2f/grasp_telemetry@, @/x_telemetry_2f/grasp_event@)
* sidecar web server and optional isolated rosbridge
* mode manager service (@grid <-> urdf@)
* compatibility with namespaced std-viz TF topics
* browser UI support for @GridMode@, @XelaModel@, and @RobotModel@

h2. 3. Interfaces

h3. 3.1 Input

* @/x_taxel_2f@ (@xela_taxel_msgs/msg/XTaxelSensorTArray@)
* optional: @/x_telemetry_2f/grasp_telemetry@ (@std_msgs/msg/String@)
* optional: @/x_telemetry_2f/grasp_event@ (@std_msgs/msg/String@)

h3. 3.2 Output

* @/x_taxel_2f/web_state@ (@std_msgs/msg/String@ JSON)
* service: @/xela_viz_mode_manager/set_mode@ (@std_srvs/srv/SetBool@)
* static web assets on @http://<web_host>:<web_port>/@

h3. 3.3 Integration targets

* bridge parameter service: @/<bridge_node_name>/set_parameters@
* viz mode service: @/<viz_node_name>/set_mode@

h2. 4. Functional requirements

* FR-01: bridge node shall publish JSON state for web rendering.
* FR-01a: when enabled, bridge node shall attach recent grasp telemetry/event JSON to the web payload.
* FR-02: mode manager shall convert SetBool request to bridge parameter updates.
* FR-03: mode manager shall request viz mode service when available.
* FR-04: launch shall support local web server and optional local rosbridge.
* FR-05: launch shall support namespaced TF remap for std-viz integration.
* FR-06: web client shall support @GridMode@, @XelaModel@, and @RobotModel@ from the same web payload.
* FR-07: web client shall try websocket candidates in order (@:9090@, @:3201@, @/ros@) unless an explicit @ws@ URL is provided.

h2. 5. Non-functional requirements

* NFR-01: runtime mode switch shall not require relaunch.
* NFR-02: package shall run independently from MoveIt Pro runtime.
* NFR-03: ROS 2 Humble compatibility.

h2. 6. Acceptance checks

* AC-01: @xela_taxel_sidecar_cpp.launch.py@ starts bridge/manager/web server/rosbridge.
* AC-02: @/x_taxel_2f/web_state@ publishes when tactile input exists.
* AC-02a: when grasp metadata inputs are present, recent telemetry/event JSON is embedded in the payload.
* AC-03: mode service call updates bridge mode behavior.
* AC-04: web UI renders @GridMode@, @XelaModel@, and @RobotModel@.
* AC-05: web client can connect through the sidecar rosbridge default path or its documented fallbacks.
